if you stick with this video for 45
seconds I think you're going to see that
it's not a gossip video my purpose here
is not to gossip about basically the
fact that Sonia Elise lost her job and
got kicked out of her home or kicked out
of her apartment
mikeycal here Sonia Elise because that
makes more sensitive her name is
actually Sonia LC so are you sure to
Sonia look for me this scandal is it
even a scandal this peculiar series of
events brings up a bunch of topics that
really matter to me in my life and I
think they do matter to a lot of other
young parents and they matter a lot of
other vegans I'm 38 years old I have a
four-year-old daughter during the first
year of my daughter's life and before my
daughter was born and before my daughter
was conceived because it was totally
planned you know wasn't a surprise I did
talk to my wife now my ex-wife about
some of these issues we had seen this
pattern play out you know my ex-wife and
I our minds were blown by what seemed
againi we'd seen it with Australian
couples British couples Canadian couples
and we've seen it in places like
Thailand and Laos and China this really
weird pattern of people who want to hire
a nanny
want to hire a live-in au-pair someone
to clean up the house a little bit and
help take care of a newborn baby or
child and they irrationally hire someone
who is as young as possible and as
beautiful as beautiful as possible when
that just doesn't qualify them for the
job in any way and doesn't foretell a
positive dynamic for the husband and
wife and how the whole family unit is
going to work now look I don't think
it's as shallow as wanting to hire
beautiful people for a job all kinds of
jobs when you're trying to hire a
waitress or you're trying to hire a
lawyer you may be influenced by the fact
that they're good-looking when I was
hiring a lawyer in my divorce frankly I
remember was funny because you you'd
scroll through the list of lawyers you
know you could send an email to try to
set up an arrangement and normally what
you just get was their their name and a
photo of their face and a lot of them
were chiffon cocktail clicking there are
seat it's a ridiculous am I going to
hire a lawyer because it's a
good-looking woman you know I'm not
going to make the decision on this basis
terrible but consciously or
unconsciously a lot of people do make
decisions that way but beauty is only
one factor here and the beauty is
problematic because it can trigger
feelings of jealousy on the part of the
mother and it can trigger other kinds of
feelings on the part of the man in the
family we're all human when I made it a
stone let's get real you're all living
in a house together sleeping irregular
hours taking care of a newborn baby
nobody's getting a full night's sleep in
those circumstances doesn't matter if
you have 1000 pairs running out of you
but look beauty is only one element I
think another much more important
element is the issue of Authority and
this is one that's so much worse for
vegans it's really hard for a 31 year
old woman let's say the mother of the
baby is 31 years old you got a new baby
are you going to bring in a woman who's
inexperienced authoritative grandmother
figure a woman who has already raised
maybe 4 babies maybe she's done it 4 or
5 times already has a ton of experience
and can tell you what to do who's in a
position to dispute or debate the
decisions you make in your own house
for the woman whether she's conscious of
it or not that is a really strong reason
why she might want to hire someone as
young as possible and as inexperienced
as possible whether or not they're as
beautiful as possible I think that's a
really fundamental driving factor and
veganism makes it worse we're talking
about a grandmother figure who's going
to tell you as a matter of fact that you
have to feed your baby veal when I was
in France standard baby food was veal
veal in a little jar does it fed to
newborn babies you know do you want to
have that conversation with your
employee you know assuming you're paying
for this service or in this case it was
just kind of room and board in exchange
for help it's really tough it's really
really really hard to deal with so as a
general pattern I think I see one couple
after another really kind of putting
their relationship in peril and hiring
someone for the wrong reasons and in
this case the Sonja lease I'm not
casting any shade of not gossiping but I
think it is pretty clear that just as
she was hired for the wrong reasons
she was also inevitably fired for the
wrong reasons it is very very easy for
women to get jealous of other women even
when there's no flirtation when there's
no cheating going on when there's no no
sexual activity going on most women can
tell on a matter of instinct if their
husband is affectionate towards them but
their husband's being affection towards
them because they're turned on by
another woman and that can just be as
your husband had a conversation with a
female co-worker at the office or your
husband went to a strip club and came
back all these things are kind of normal
in terms of the remit of middle-aged
experience
so a lot of women feel they can tell
that and then there are women who think
they can tell that who think they know
that managers do know when they're wrong
you know where they're doing that as a
leak of influence or as a matter of
incident so yeah bringing someone like
that into your home and hiring them in
the first place not because they're
experienced that because they're people
taking on that job but basically for any
other reason is a formula for disaster
and it's amazing to me like I think the
whole nation of France is obsessed with
idea when I was in France either when I
was in England again very very different
attitudes towards the nanny and so on
but I think it is really one of these
very strange crossroads in our culture
where the Democratic modern values we
have of equality and openness and
cooperation are incompatible with an
almost futile set of values of the
household household servants household
slave and how do you manage incongruous
contrast between what remains you know a
role that's unchanged since feudalism
and a set of social attitudes that have
changed so rapidly that for example in
my own family with no money of old it
would have been impossible for me to
employ my own grandmother let alone
someone else's grandmother to help take
care of my kids
because my values and my assumptions my
assumptions about hygiene nutrition how
the house should be run I don't believe
my baby drops a toy on the floor
I do not pick up that toy and give it to
the baby because the baby will put the
toy in their mouth right if my baby
drops toy on the floor I wash it
soap and water and I wash my hands and
only after its dried again I give back
the baby I will not give a dirty toy to
a baby and that's probably not going to
be your grandmother's attitude or anyone
from that generation those ideas about
hygiene and hand-washing and beyond that
how do you expect someone whether there
are 65 year old latency of 65 year old
American or a 42 year old from the
Philippines you know a lot of these
people or from Mexico a lot of these
people are hiring their opener nannies
from from third-world countries because
of the difference in the wages and so on
the wages are simply worth more to
someone who owns a house back in the
Philippines or is making down payments
on a house of the Philippines
instead of making down payments on a
house in Los Angeles so yeah it's a case
where stark social inequality inequality
of the most intimate kind inequality
that in the past was dealt with through
feudal relations of master to servant is
so hard for us to cope with because
today we don't want people in our homes
whom we order around like a servant but
in the other hand most women are not
really having they're not really
comfortable with having someone in the
house who can debate what is best for
the child as an equal